To create a White Hate visualization, I began by addressing the color scale issues with the upper map. I replaced the green to red scale with a yellow to red scale, making the scale both more color blind safe, and more accurate for continuous, non-divergent data. Further, I adjusted the scale so that, rather than being mapped directly to the death count, the visualization shows deaths per 100,000 people. By displaying a ratio instead of death count, the visualization avoids functioning as simply a population map of the United States. Next, the cities where not conveying much information, in the Black Hat visualization, so I added a tooltip to display city name and death count, and scaled the circle's area based on count, rather than the circle's radius. Area is a more accurate mapping for the one-dimensional data point (death count), so this allows the viewer to compare cities more intuitively. I also added a white outline to visually highlight the city that corresponds with the tooltip to add clarity. 

The Black Hat visualization provides a chart mapping death count to the difficulty of each state to draw. I updated this chart to instead show, for each state, the percentage of victims that were male. In this plot, the scale is set to 0-1, rather than the data extents, to more clearly illustrate the idea of a gender ratio. This was inspired by my own misinterpretation of the data whe it was originally plotted with the x-axis scale being 0.55-1. I mistakenly thought that Hawaii had almost entirely female victims, until I noticed in the tool tip that it was still above 50%. So, I adjusted the scale to show the full percentage range, added a dotted line to mark 50% (or, an even gender ratio), and labeled the two halves of the plot. This was to provide the full context, and show, as clearly as possible, that the majority of victims were male. The color scale is merely a dual-encoding of percentage, where a higher percentage of male victims is displayed with a darker color. Finally, I added a second plot beneath the map. On this plot, I show the number of deaths for each month of each year. Further, I color the bars of the chart by the maximum number of deaths in a single incident. For get this value, I grouped the data by day, time, location, and associated URL, with the idea being that this would give me individual incidents, such as the Sandy Hook tragedy, in December of 2012. I counted the number of victims per event, then grouped these by month, and then mapped the maximum victim count to color. My reasoning here is that this representation allows the viewer to quickly isolate months that may have had a mass shooting incident by comparing the luminance of the color with the area. It also implies to the viewer that most gun deaths do not happen en masse, rather, through thousands of isolated incidents across the country. 

Data Sources: 
* State map: https://eric.clst.org/tech/usgeojson/
* Original state population: US Census 
https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/popest/2010s-state-total.html 
* Original Slate gun violence dataset:
https://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/crime/2012/12/gun_death_tally_every_american_gun_death_since_newtown_sandy_hook_shooting.html   

Other sources are in the Data Processing python file. These weren't used in the visualization, but I did do a little outside data exploration while figuring out what to add, so I figured I'd keep that in case its useful later on. 

Other Sources: 
Bar chart adapted from this code: https://d3-graph-gallery.com/graph/barplot_basic.html
